UFC 200. Yeah,
the land arguably the landmark event and the history of the UFC.
We lose our main event the Wednesday before
UFC 200 millions, if not,
tens of millions into the marketing of that. Um, you know,
the success of the pay perview probably hinges on that great main event between
John and, and Daniel and we lost it three or four days before.
And that could happen at, you know, at any given moment.
Now we talked about this.
Before the podcast, um,
what you could or could not talk about with the current state of John Jones
investigation. So where's.
It at right now? Yeah. So, you know, generally we don't talk about, um, a case.
So, so how the process works when an athlete tests positive,
yada will notify me. Um,
I usually pick the phone up right away and call Dana and let him know.
And the UFC puts out an announcement. They say, you know, in the case of John,
John tested positive, uh, and in an, in competition on this date,
um, you know, more information will be provided at the appropriate time.
That's generally all we'll talk about. Now,
if the athlete chooses to talk about, you know, scenarios of, of what happened,
then they're free to do that. Um,
at that point you saw it in the UFC can comment on it. So there's been,
some things talked about in the John Case. Um, John, um,
particularly he had two clean tests on July 7th and
July 8th before his positive test on, I think July 30th,
which was way in day. Um,
and the positive test was for de hydro chloral methyl, testosterone,
or oral ball. Um,
this is a substance that was used by the east Germans, um,
regularly in the late sixties, and then came into the fold a little bit more,
um, of what's come out recently, um, outta Russia. So, um, I know you had, uh,
Brian Fogel on for the, for the OUS movie.
I think he talked about a little bit about this, um, uh,
Gregory the head of the, the Moscow Wata laboratory.
This drug became kind of part of his protocol, um, with his athletes.
He then ironically enough developed a test for the long term metabolites of the
drug. So previous to that,
the detection window of this drug was a couple of days. So it was a drug that,
you know, even if you run a strict program, an athlete may gamble with taking,
because it had a quick clearance time after he discovered the long term
metabolite, um, test that changed.
It went from a detected when detection window of a couple days to a detection
window of several months. And this was widely known. You know,
it wasn't a secret initially they kept it quiet.
They went back and retested some samples and there was a whole, you know,
a bunch of positives.
And then it got out 2013 around that there was this new test.
So right up front, you know, I've, I've said this a while now is,
would not make a lot of sense for an individual, a UFC athlete that knew,
you know, especially, you know, a champion contender like John Jones that knew,
Hey,
I'm tested quite regularly in this program would not make a lot of sense that
that would be your drug of choice if you were intentionally trying to cheat.
Um,
I think it's come out after the fact that you saw to did another test on
John, um, a month or two or a couple months after his positive test.
And he was negative during that test. So that would be indicative that,
you know,
the prohibited system entered his system or the prohibited substance entered his
system, you know,
sometime after July 7th or eighth and was likely know a pretty small amount
and that it cleared his system pretty quickly. Um, again, you know,
who knows where it plays out,
but certainly on the surface of things I have said, you know,
at this point in the game with that type of information out there, um, it,
it wouldn't indicate intentional use. Now that could be wrong.
I don't know that definitively. And, and we'll see how this plays out, uh,
right now where the process is, is John and yada are working closely. Um,
I'm aware that there was a meeting a week or two ago, pretty lengthy meeting,
which, uh, I was told was productive. Uh,
wasn't given details of what productive meant. Um,
but I think that's an important thing right now,
and that John's follow through with is to of retrace all of his steps between
that, you know,
last July 8th positive test and or negative test and the positive test on
July 29th or July 30th.
It certainly seems like, uh, based on what you just said,
that this is something that was accidentally taken,
but if you can't prove that something was accidentally taken,
like if you can't nail it down, um, what do you, what happens there? Yeah, it's.
It's difficult. And that's, you know,
that's kind of the nightmare scenario that a lot of, you know,
that an athlete can face and in a big role of what Donna and I do to prevent
that from happening to show them what type of care and consideration is
needed to make sure you don't get into a scenario like that, you know,
under a program like this, you have to be,
be careful about everything that's put into your body, um, everything.
And, uh, if you're not, there can be, you know, severe consequences. Um,
so yeah, we'll, we'll see where this plays out. I,
I tell you the one thing that I, that I can say about this is, you know,
this is obviously John's second time, um, in the program with testing positive.
And in the first time he went through a pretty lengthy, um, appeal process.
And there was a publicly issued, uh, decision 50,
60 pages that went through all the evidence that, um, that the independent,
um, uh, arbitrators heard and, and decided on.
And what they said defend in that case was John,
there was no evidence that John intentionally cheated,
however he operated with careless, reckless disregard. Um,
so he ended up getting the maximum for that, for those substances,
he tested positive for a.
Year. And that was for some gas station Viagra type.
No, well, it was actually a couple of anti-estrogen drugs,
but what was shown and what the evidence pointed to was that he took a pill,
um, that was manufactured from a website by the name of all American peptide.
Uh, the pill was reported to be a sea Alice, um, pill.
So Recile Def dysfunction pill that was tainted with these two drugs. Mm.
Now the problem with the arbitrator said is if he would've gone to that website
and the arbitrators did, and I did,
you would've seen that that same website offered, you know, tons of performance,
enhance prohibited, performance enhancing drugs. And the website said, you know,
not for human for research purposes only.
So it really was careless this regard, that being said, however, John's,
you know, second time through the program. Now,
the second sanction this time for, you know,
an anabolic type steroid would have, you know,
a starting point potentially of a four year suspension,
that's a starting point that that could be a starting point, right?
Mm-hmm <affirmative>, unless there are mitigating factors. Now I don't,
you know, again,
the beauty of this program is it's not the UFC or not me deciding, right.
You know, what the sanction's gonna be. No one can accuse us of, you know,
operating for business purposes or favoritism or whatever. Right. Um,
but that being said, you know,
when we put this program together and figured out, you know,
what sanctioning would look like,
I don't necessarily think that we put up a four year sanction, um,
for a second term offense,
when the first term offense was shown that that person didn't cheat
intentionally, right. Just operated with careless disregard. So, so who.
Makes that distinction.
Then yada, yada makes that distinction. They, you know,
they have a whole team looking at it. They can compare it to other cases under,
you know, the wa uh, Olympic type umbrella, similar cases. Um,
I will say this, that, you know, I think we've had, uh, a few over 60, um,
positive adverse events in this case.
And those that have been adjudicated I've been comfortable every time that
they've made a fair and balance and reasonable decision.
And that's part of my job is to be the eyes and ears for athletes to make sure
not only is the program being administered properly and has strength,
but also that they're being treated fairly and that they have due process.
So I have all the confidence in the world. However, this does come out,
that it will be the right decision.
The other really cool thing about the program is the transplant see the program.
So, you know, it won't just be me saying this, however, it does come out,
whether it goes to arbitration or whether John and you saw to reach a
settlement, it'll be well spelled out about why that sanction, uh,
was determined.
Now you say starting point, meaning that it could potentially be.
More, it could. So, uh, when there's something called aggravating circumstances,
so more than just knowingly taking the drug, lying, taking the drug and lying,
trying to cover it up, taking multiple drugs, one trying to hide the other.
Yeah, you could, you could get double, um, uh, the sanction amount. So, um,
you know, on a second time,
anabolic steroid four years is kind of the starting point.
You can go lower for mitigating factors.
You can go higher for aggravating factors up to eight years. Um,
so yeah, I mean, it would have to require something, you know,
really severe and egregious to get wow. To get up that, that.